Now there also is one thing in that developer overlay you can open which is extremely helpful for debugging
your user interface.
And that's the toggle Inspector option to toggle this you'll see does overlay at the bottom here.
And now you can click onto items in your user interface to get information about them.
For example here A button.
Now you see the margin around the button the padding you see its position in the component componentry
you see some configuration of the button and you can all have a look at the surroundings and therefore
you get a feeling for why things are laid out on the screen.
They are you can always close this again by opening the developer overlay and then again clicking toggle
inspector and of course that's also a way lable here on ISIS where you can also get a feeling for how
things are positioned and why they are positioned in that way.
However there is a even better tool for inspecting this data for all closed doors here and that's to
react native debugger.
You can search for React Native debugger and you should find this github page here.
And on this page you can download do you react native debugger you find installation instructions here
and you can simply go to the release page and the end
you're to download one of these binaries for your operating system.
So for Windows x e file here setup file for Mako is a DMC file and so on.
So these are different things you can download.
I'll go with the DMC file to download the latest version here save this and wait for this download to
finish and then let me simply execute this and finish up the installation by simply walking through
the installer or in my case here on Mako is simply dragging this into the applications directory and
now it can open up the react native debugger here and here it is now it's not working right now because
for this to work you need to enable remote javascript debugging on the devices.
Just what we did before to debug this in chrome.
Now this essentially replaces does chrome debugging experience you could say or enhances it.
Now with this opened up press command t on mac or control t on Windows or Linux in here to open a new
tab and open and confirm that React Native debugger report which the chrome tab also used before and
confirmed this and now it's trying to connect there and to make this succeed open up your developer
tools let's say on Android now and debug javascript remotely.
And now this should connect here and you'll see your console output here now in the debugger tools.
You'll also see sponsors that and sources you can again dive into your code here if you want to just
as before.
And the big difference of course is not that you can do this because that's the same you could do in
the browser but Dad here you now have the pretty neat tools here on the left.
So you can still of course set breakpoints and everything.
But here you now for one got your X debugging tools and we're not using redux here so they're pretty
empty.
Nothing going on here but at the bottom you have these elements debugging tool.
And this allows you to explore your React Native J.S. X code so to say so you were element you a component
tree in this nice user interface which is definitely nicer than the inspector.
You could toggle here because now here you really can have a look at what's going on you can dive into
the root component to then find our app component down there and in there we find our view with that
button we can click on the button and we see the props that we're using on the button like on press
and the title that we set.
We can click on our own component where we see the props were forwarding there we can even change the
visible prop to toggle this model like this if we want to.
That's really nice.
We see the hooks we're using in there like the state we're currently managing in our component.
And if I open that model here you see that state that props your changes.
And if I start typing here like learn react native you'll see that this all is up there's here on the
right light.
Slight delay but that shouldn't be an issue that's really neat.
We can add this and see the state changes here.
We can of course dive deeper into our goal input to see the model here.
You can explore the flat list and what's configured there and dive deeper into this view if you want
to read a lot of stuff you can do there and you can overall explore your componentry there to find out
what's going on on elements very you directly added a style like on the surrounding view for example
where I set this padding.
You can even inspect the style and not just see the style but also change it for example to increase
the padding or reduce it.
And this gives you an easy way of testing different looks and layouts on the screen to find out what's
looking good for you and what you want to change.
You can also go to the profiler tab here and start a profiling session then do something on the screen
like open and close to modal and stop this and you'll get the default react def tools experience here
where you see which of your components were repaint it and you can dive into that to get an idea for
what was replaced repainted which props it had at the time and how many rebranded cycles you had to
for example find out if there are unnecessary repaint going on obviously a bit of a more advanced thing
to do and something you might want to do when you're closer to finishing up your app to make sure you're
optimizing performance and you're avoiding unnecessary rerun or cycles but these tools can really be
helpful for spotting little issues in your app and for making sure that everything is working in the
way it should work in your app.
Now whenever a cool thing you can do with the react native debugger you can right click anywhere here
and say Here you can enable network inspect.
And if you do this then you can go to the network tab and you'll see outgoing network requests.
Now these are all just debugging related requests but later in the course when we'll add our own network
requests where we send requests to our own Web server we can even inspect those here and look into them
and see where sending and receiving the right data something which is otherwise pretty hard to do with
native apps here.
It's a breeze so React Native debugger really is a cool tool for looking into your app for setting breakpoints
viewing the console viewing your componentry viewing the stars you're using data and so much more it
really allows you to dive deeply into your application code into your UI into your logic and find out
if everything is working the way it should work and you can even go in year and change certain things
like the styling as you saw to experiment with different settings and find out where you need to tweak
your app for it to work correctly.